(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.) Waterforce staff on the front line of our
migrant crisis are going to lay down their
tools.
My goodness, more than a hundred maritime officers,
the crews who patrol the Channel, well they're
going to go on strike on November the
14th.
Major blow for the Prime Minister of course
because he's already so much under fire for
failing to get a grip on small boat
crossings.
The Channel crossings, those illegal ones, up 25
% on this time last year.
So the Union, which represents Border Force staff,
PCS, say that staff will be striking because
of frozen allowances and working conditions.
Yeah, the Home Office says it has robust
plans to minimise disruption and uphold UK border
security, insisting those plans remain unchanged.
Wouldn't you think that one of the things
that, you know, one of the professions that
should not be allowed to strike would be
Border Force?
Well, maybe, but they are under a lot
of pressure, I don't blame them for being
fed up.
Let's get the take of the political editor
for Times Radio, Anna Mihailova.
Very good morning to you, Anna.
This is astonishing actually that Border Force can
go on strike at all when we need
them most.
Well, and you raise a good point about
professions that perhaps shouldn't strike.
And Temi Bainog, if you remember in her
recent conference, said she would ban GPs from
striking.
So I think the follow-up question to
that would be, would she also ban Border
Force?
And would other parties ban Border Force?
So I think that might be where the
debate moves after this, because it is pretty
shocking with the state of what is going
on with the small boats crisis that Border
Force would be allowed to strike.
Just to give some context on the story,
though, this appears to be something that is
part of long-running discussions with the Home
Office.
The Home Office had promised to standardise hours
for those staff, because obviously they do work
very unusual hours and are required to.
And this is something that the Home Office
said promised to do six years ago, started
talks on this six years ago, and hasn't
really delivered.
So that is why the union says that
it is taking action on that.
So there are questions for the Home Office
here too, very much.
Yeah, but I mean, on the broader picture
of this, I mean, what a nightmare for
the Prime Minister.
Despite everything he promised, the numbers are going
up.
I know deportations are increasing as well, but
I mean, the number of people trying to
get here is up 25% year on
year.
And yet here we are, now his own
Border Force are throwing the towel in.
Yeah, and of course, it's not only a
problem for the Prime Minister, but also the
new Home Secretary, Shabana Mahmood, who is well
respected and so far has been more proactive.
She has made a point of saying that
she will do whatever it takes to stop
both illegal and curb legal migration.
But this is an exact example of what
she is up against.
There are so many things that could go
wrong with the Home Office and in the
Home Office.
And this is one of the latest ones.
But of course, when you look at unions
striking, you have to understand that a year
ago, when Labour came in to government, one
of the first things Keir Starmer did was
give very generous settlements to a couple of
major unions, which of course does send a
signal to other unions about what they can
do too.